KODIKI
1. automatically load all fonts from assets
2. optionally show hints about possible actions (like in witcher3 for example)
3. show all known types like in vscode on ctrl+alt
4. make it easy to go from documentation to implementation from it 

CAMERA
1. (!)following text cursor when out of visibility
2. fit view to code
3. goto line
4. speed up movement optionally (scroll and shift)
5. smart scrolling: find dominant direction and don't let the other one change its value
6. weaker scroll reset for slow mouse movements
7. do not directly read mouse and kb events or use more flags?
8. refactor camera to have smaller systems affecting translation/rotation/zoom
9. refactor camera to have easings in all modes
10. go to caret
11. zoom out in ortho camera mode

TEXT EDITOR
1. page up/down doesnt work with vertically expanded view
2. visualize tabs and spaces(helix can do that)
3. simulate vscode plugin that changes brace color
4. show scopes with vertical lines like vscode or something else
6. dim shadertoy on background
7. add missing keycodes
7.1. curly brackets
8. adjustable cursor size
9. (done!)keep EditorView inside EditorViewBevy to avoid major code duplication
10. letter spacings are corrupted

CODE OUTLINE
1. find what is in helix first

HELIX DECOMPOSITION
1. render all file instead of viewport
1.1. (done!)render huge viewport vertically
2. make viewport optional if we want to render whole file at once
3. (done!)pass vec of surfaces to render pipeline
3.1. (done!)finish render_ext for all layers
3.2. (done!)reduce render_ext and surface creation boilerplate
3.3. (done)utilize Component::id for render_ext
4. (fixed!)space mode is not working
5. render border symbols
6. render background for each surface
6.1. (done!)render background for editor surface
6.2. smaller surfaces have too much space allocated
6.2.1. fix diagnostics component
6.2.2. fix area for space mode
6.2.3. fix area for command mode
6.2.4. fix area for goto mode
6.3. (done!)use clone_weak for all handles again
6.4. replace all quads of default bg color with one big bg quad
6.5. cursor doesnt fit symbols: background quad size and position need adjusting
7. find where to place extra surfaces
8. (done!)clean up inactive surfaces
9. (fixed!)calling :open asserts in tokio
10. (fixed!)cursor position is not in editor
11. file saving doesnt work

HELIX
1. make runtime autodetected. highlighting should work just from cargo run -r
2. handle lsp events
3. handle mouse events
4. reload shadertoy on button or helix command?
5. show variable type when suggesting it in autocomplete
6. show in which function cursor is

PERF
1. hook up profiler
2. look at what people do (bevy_efficient_forest_rendering)
3. (done!)make an "atlas" of letters and replace mesh handles instead of respawning
4. make an "atlas" of words along the way and replace commonly occuring set of letter-objects with single-object word or every word?
4.1. generate word object after space is pressed every time
4.1. ^(not sure about this one anymore)

oof
1. detect patterns in code editing and ask if repeat. (i was deleting Default:: a lot)
2. text wrapping is a good opportunity to flex 3d?
3. filtered view with only certain stuff rendered
4. ngon with a file on each face
5. project visualization with nodes etc
6. callstack visualization with links between files
7. show errors with lamps/whatever effects.
8. mods will be epic. a corridor with each file as a door. flying spaceship with files/planets, custom 3d fonts, custom caret model you name it.
9. attach words to their positions with joints and let them loose
10. real constellations on nightsky shadertoy on background?
11. record all activity for nice timelapses
12. minimap for scrolling
13. use system fonts as well
14. show warnings about unused and other housekeeping stuff on request (special mode/overlay)
15. quick commit: small change in two line should be committable in one-two clicks
16. bookmarks on functions/lines with fast travel
17. draggable shadertoy in a small 3d window in space
18. autodocumentation at least like in vscode is a must
19. ? operator is almost invisible when you what to find who(what line) returns error
20. ! spaces and tabs are for compilers, not for humans to read. make meta data file over normal source code file with data about it's visual representation: models, corrdinates etc, basically serialized "level"

bif oof
1. bring the best from games into coding
1.1. reduce friction by having a way to do most things without writing words but by interacting with interface
1.2. make a representation of code with a visual schematic model, most likely as a graph (think visual nodes, but more transparent: i want to keep an ability to read code directly)
1.2.1. like all "use" stuff has it's dedicated area and can be rendered as a tree of links to other files.
1.2.2. "ifs" have two branches, it's a good opportunity to flex 3d
1.2.3. all code parts have to be attachable to each other to represent the order of execution
1.3. navigation of this code has to be at least as easy as in vs or vim
1.3.1. per-symbol navigation is slow and redundant.
1.3.1. l/rbracket in helix is a good step forward, visualizing that more would be a good start 
1.3.2. step-per-token? per-ast-node?

vfx
1. typewriter as Eric suggested
2. letters flying/arriving from distance when typing
3. cursor as some model
4. animation on cursor-model when typing
5. model/animation for autocomplete popup
7. visualize helix mode near/at cursor (show a label, draw a model whatever)